all right so Danny you're gonna start
doing Insurance Falls now that you're
here at scripts checked out
one thing I haven't done this I haven't
made sure that you fully know all the
terms so I'm gonna go through before you
call insurances I just want to make sure
that you understand kind of what you're
asking
um can you tell me the difference
between PPO and HMO insurance
you know um HMO typically has a dentist
name or a provider on their insurance
card yep and a PPO doesn't yeah that's
the biggest thing I know the difference
perfectly yeah so if a patient calls you
and if they don't know if they're in an
HMO or not you ask them on the card do
you see a doctor's name most of the time
that's a big red flag that that's an HMO
if they have a doctor's name on there
because they can only go to that one
doctor okay and any time an HMO patient
calls in they're not going to get any
benefits coming to our office because
we're not in network for the HMOs okay
so then when the PPO so now you're
calling insurances do you know the
difference between in and out of network
when it comes to PPO if we're in network
then which we're not foremost for in
network then we have lower they pay less
out of pocket and if we're out of
network then they pay more out of pocket
yeah insurance pays less on it yeah so
the way it works is if the reason
doctors joined PPOs
is because they get on a list they
discount the fees for the patient and in
return they get on the list so the
patient needs an identify can go to the
list ago this doctors in my insurance so
it's sort of like an exchange with the
insurance we're not doing that we're not
in network because we do marketing and
we get new patients other ways but the
difference is we don't have to follow
what they call fee schedule okay so
those doctors follow like MetLife they
follow their fee schedule when you're in
network what we are is were considered
UCR or usual and customary so these are
just our normal fees versus what the
insurance will pay okay
so then when you call the insurance some
of the things we want to find out are
just like what their annual maximum is
you know what that is hmm what's that um
it's the well maximum per year yeah
making use of their insurance perfect
and then it's per patient
so there's each patient gets a thousand
dollars or fifteen hundreds of
that sometimes there's a family maximum
but most of the time it's just for
patient okay deductible you didn't know
you're gonna get deductible it's a
certain amount of money that they have
to put down or that they have to use up
before the insurance can actually start
making a claim yeah yeah
so the first amount is the first so if
it's $50 and the patient has to pay $50
then the insurance will kick in or if
it's $25 and the only play it once a
year so when you're calling to verify
the insurance the reason the women know
what their deductible is and have they
met it because if they haven't met it
that means they have to pay us that
amount first okay then the insurance
look again